



Abu Md Sadat Hossain

------------------------------------------------------------------------

  Specialties: Javascript, ReactJS, NodeJS, React-Native
  Aspirations: Golang, K8S, IaaS, Distributed Systems
  Software Engineer
  sadat.hossain@hotmail.com
  +8801747367559, +8801825445048

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Experience

React Native Developer:ZAAG SYSTEMS LTD

ZAAG SYSTEMS LTD unlocks the potential it’s client website with their
skilled front-end developers. We create captivating user interfaces and
ensure smooth functionality, delivering exceptional web experiences for
your audience.

-   Project TrulyLocal for builder.ai
    -   Development and maintenance of a Food delivery app built with
        [React Native]

Senior Software Engineer:Strativ AB

Strativ AB provides tailored IT solutions which strengthens the
competitiveness of its’ clients such as Docty AB, which is one of the
leading healthcare provider in Sweden. My experience with Strativ
evolves around 4 of the major services offered by Docty:

-   Docty
    -   Development and maintenance of the Docty app built with React
        Native, which helps to track patient records.
-   Dermly
    -   Development and maintenance of the Dermly app built with React
        Native, which helps nurses to diagnosis the patient with
        potential skin cancer threat.
-   Kroppscheckerna
    -   Development and maintenance of the Kroppscheckerna app built
        with React Native, which helps nurses to diagnosis the patient
        with potential acne/rosacea threat.
-   Vaccina
    -   Development and maintenance of the Vaccina web front-end built
        with ReactJS, which provides vaccinations against covid-19,
        influenza, pneumococci, TBE, chickenpox, hepatitis and shingles
        at 65 locations in Sweden.
-   Operations
    -   Implemented fastlane to automate the iOS deployment.
    -   Implemented Private distribution with iOS via redemption code.

DevOps Engineer:ImagineRadio

At ImagineRadio we associate music with moments and moments with
emotions - the emotions that define us. So, we have tried to produce
playlists for every moment to connect to every emotion on the spectrum.
To ensure that, Our technical Stack comprised of
Django-Rest-Framework(DRF) and React-Native(RN) for cross-platform app
delivery. As a startup, My journey with IR mostly has been delivery
oriented and feature centric around these 3 key criteria:

-   React Native
    -   Integrated and Maintained couple of React Native community
        libraries like React Native Track Player, OneSignal, Sentry,
        admob, firebase etc
    -   Implemented Segmented Audio/Video consumption with HLS
    -   Fixed some of the major bug issues with React Native Track
        Player for iOS
    -   Implemented IP-based geo restriction, Client-Side Failover and
        Some core business logic.
-   ReactJS
    -   Developed web front-end for ImagineRadio-WEB
    -   Implemented CMS integration identical to App backend.
    -   Also Implemented Segmented Audio/Video consumption with HLS
    -   Implemented IP-based geo restriction and Some core business
        logic.
-   Operations
    -   Implemented Let’s Encrypt for enabling HTTPS.
    -   Implemented Content-Serving-Policy for Segmented audio/video
        data with HLS
    -   Deploy and Maintain ImagineRadio-WEB

Commit-Timeline

Commit-Timeline Provides a simple insight of my commit-data for
different projects here at ImagineRadio

-   ImagineRadio(https://sadathossain.github.io/commit-timeline/imagineradio)
-   ImagineRadio-Web(https://sadathossain.github.io/commit-timeline/imagineradio-web)

alpha:Cloud3 Solution

At Cloud3 we develop Modern Cloud Native Application. We also involve in
implementing Energy efficient hybrid infra-structure solution for
customer’s on premise :

-   Implemented a Wireless Internet Service Provider (WISP) for our
    client at Homna Cable TV Network

Education

2016-2018

    MSc, Information Technology; Institute of Information Technology
    Dhaka University (Dhaka)

    Thesis title: 12 Factor Note Application with Micro service
    Architecture

2006-2010

    BSc, Electronics & Communication Engineering; Khulna University
    Khulna

    Minor: Networking

2003-2005

    HSC, Higher Secondary Certificate; Notre Dame College Dhaka

    Major: Science

2003

    SSC, Secondary School Certificate; St. Gregory’s High School Dhaka

    Major: Science

Technical Experience

Open Source Contribution
    As a contributing member of Kubernetes, Linux Foundation had granted
    me a scholarship for attending KubeCon 2016, Amsterdam, organized by
    Cloud Native Computing Foundation.

Certifications :

-   TestDome Python
-   Red Hat Certified Server Administrator
-   Solar Photo Voltaic Energy Technology

Other Programming Languages:

Golang My first choice of language is Golang which is a compiled,
statically typed language in the tradition of Algol and C. I started
with Golang in 2016 with 1.6

Python I started with Python in the late 2015 through Django. Later I
have been introduced to Flask, Both of them quickly became my choice of
framework for web development.

Elixir is a functional, concurrent, general-purpose programming language
that runs on the Erlang virtual machine. I have been introduced to in
the late 2016 with Phoenix. I am still learning it as my first
functional language.

: Basic knowledge of C++, Java, Javascript, Elm

Activities and Interests

Sports
    Cricket, Lawn Tennis and Football

Hobbies
    Backpacked in Australia, Music and Drawing

Activities
    I was a active member of NDSC. Won couple of prizes on campus fair.

Other

-   Human Languages:

    -   Bangla (native speaker)
    -   English
